## Essay answer
Additionally, river transportation provides another example of a benefit provided by the natural ecosystems of the Amazon basin. Navigable networks for large motorised vessels extend deep into the Amazon basin. ([CITATION](highlights://Amazon%20Life#page=110)) mentions that “Until recently, people within the Amazon basin depended almost exclusively on the river network for transportation” with an estimated thirteen million passengers travelling on rivers just in Brazil. Additionally, rivers facilitate transportation of goods essential to the export economy of many nation states within the Amazon basin. For example, Manaus is a Brazilian port located 1500km inland and is the third most valuable port for Brazilian exports  ([CITATION](highlights://Amazon%20Life#page=110)). Depletion of the Amazon rainforests ability to regulate water flow, as mentioned earlier makes turbid waterways less navigable. Inland ports like Manaus on river systems that no longer support transportation become obsolete, resulting in job losses in local communities. Goods that can no longer be taken to inland ports must travel further to the coast if they are to continue being exported. Moreover, roads must be used to reach ports instead of river systems. The construction and use of roads for transport is significantly more damaging to the environment than the aforementioned river systems. Studies have shown that “95% of deforestation takes places within 50 km of a road within the Amazon” ([CITATION](highlights://Amazon%20Life#page=134)). The points discussed here show how river systems provide a benefit to local economies. 

#geography/concepts/Ecosystem-Services 